[WIP] vSphere Tutorials (#1894)
heptio/velero: site/_posts/2019-09-20-Velero-v1-1-Stateful-Backup-vSphere.md

---

> title: Velero v1.1 backing up and restoring apps on Pivotal Container Service (PKS)

Author: LGTM

> # image: https://placehold.it/200x200

Author: Done

> excerpt: Velero is an open source tool to safely back up, recover, and migrate Kubernetes clusters and persistent volumes. It works both on premises and in a public cloud. This post demonstrates how it can be used on PKS, the Pivotal Container Service which deploys Kubernetes clusters on vSphere.

Author: Done

author_name: Cormac Hogan
# author_avatar: https://placehold.it/64x64
categories: ['kubernetes']
# Tag should match author to drive author pages

> tags: ['Velero']

Author: Done

---

> Velero version 1.1 provides support to backup Kubernetes applications deployed on upstream Kubernetes deployed natively on vSphere, or deployed on Kubernetes deployed by PKS, the Pivotal Container Service for vSphere. This post will provide detailed information on how to use Velero v1.1 to backup and restore a stateful application (`Cassandra`) that is running in a Kubernetes cluster deployed on vSphere. At this time there is no vSphere plugin for snapshotting stateful applications during a Velero backup. In this case, we rely on a third party program called `restic`.

Author: Done

## Overview of steps

* Download and deploy Cassandra
* Create and populate a database and table in Cassandra
* Prepare Cassandra for a Velero backup by adding appropriate annotations
* Use Velero to take a backup
* Destroy the Cassandra deployment
* Use Velero to restore the Cassandra application
* Verify that the database and table contents have been restored

## What this post does not show

* This tutorial does not show how to deploy Velero v1.1 on vSphere (with or without PKS). These are available in other tutorials.
* The assumption is that the Kubernetes nodes in your cluster have internet access. This guide does not show how to use a local repository for Velero images.

## Download and Deploy Cassandra

> For instructions on how to download and deploy a simple Cassandra StatefulSet, please refer to [this blog post by Cormac Hogan](https://cormachogan.com/2019/06/12/kubernetes-storage-on-vsphere-101-statefulset/). This will show you how to deploy a Cassandra StatefulSet which we can use to do our Stateful aplication backup and restore. The manifests [available here](https://github.com/cormachogan/vsphere-storage-101/tree/master/StatefulSets) use an earlier version of Cassandra (v11) that includes the `cqlsh` tool which we will use now to create a database and populate a table with some sample data.

Author: Done

cqlsh:demodb> select * from emp;

 emp_id | emp_city | emp_name | emp_phone | emp_sal
--------+----------+----------+-----------+---------
    100 |     Cork |   Cormac |       999 | 1000000

(1 rows)
cqlsh:demodb> exit
```

Now that we have populated the application with some data, let's annotate each of the Pods, back it up, destroy the application and then try to restore it using Velero v1.1.

## Prepare Cassandra for a Velero stateful backup by adding Annotations

The first step is to add annotations to each of the Pods in the StatefulSet to indicate that the contents of the persistent volumes, mounted on cassandra-data, needs to be backed up as well. If this is native Kubernetes on vSphere or Kubernetes deployed via PKS, both use the `restic` program at this time for capturing state/data.

```bash
$ kubectl -n cassandra describe pod/cassandra-0 | grep Annotations
Annotations:        <none>
```

```bash
$ kubectl -n cassandra annotate pod/cassandra-0 backup.velero.io/backup-volumes=cassandra-data
pod/cassandra-0 annotated
```

```bash
$ kubectl -n cassandra describe pod/cassandra-0 | grep Annotations
Annotations:        backup.velero.io/backup-volumes: cassandra-data
```

> Repeat this action for the other Pods, in this example, Pods cassandra-1 and cassandra-2. This is an indicatation that we need to backup the persistent volume contents associated with each Pod.

Author: Fixed

## Take a backup

```bash
$ velero backup create cassandra --include-namespaces cassandra
Backup request "cassandra" submitted successfully.
Run `velero backup describe cassandra` or `velero backup logs cassandra` for more details.

> ```

Author: Done

cassandra-data-cassandra-2   Bound    pvc-51b4079c-cd91-11e9-80e4-005056a239d9   1Gi        RWO            cass-sc-csi    2m49s
```

```bash
$ kubectl exec -it cassandra-0 -n cassandra -- nodetool status
Datacenter: DC1-K8Demo
======================
Status=Up/Down
|/ State=Normal/Leaving/Joining/Moving
--  Address      Load       Tokens       Owns (effective)  Host ID                               Rack
UN  10.244.1.21  138.53 KiB  32           66.9%             2fc03eff-27ee-4934-b483-046e096ba116  Rack1-K8Demo
UN  10.244.1.22  166.45 KiB  32           71.7%             8d88d0ec-2981-4c8b-a295-b36eee62693c  Rack1-K8Demo
UN  10.244.2.23  160.43 KiB  32           61.4%             83867fd7-bb6f-45dd-b5ea-cdf5dcec9bad  Rack1-K8Demo
```

```bash
$ kubectl exec -it cassandra-0 -n cassandra -- cqlsh
Connected to K8Demo at 127.0.0.1:9042.
[cqlsh 5.0.1 | Cassandra 3.9 | CQL spec 3.4.2 | Native protocol v4]
Use HELP for help.
cqlsh> use demodb;

cqlsh:demodb> select * from emp;

 emp_id | emp_city | emp_name | emp_phone | emp_sal
--------+----------+----------+-----------+---------
    100 |     Cork |   Cormac |       999 | 1000000

(1 rows)
cqlsh:demodb>
```

> It looks like the restore has been successful. Velero v1.1 has successfully restore the Kubenetes objects for the Cassandra applicaation, as well as restore database and table contents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It looks like the restore has been successful. Velero v1.1 has successfully restored the Kubenetes objects for the Cassandra application, as well as restored the database and table contents.
```
